README.md, before:

# cowin-vaccine-slot-checker
This is a Python script which will help you to know when a slot is available on Cowin website.

**This script has been tested with Python version 3.6, 3.8 on Linux/MacOs. In case you want to run it with Python 2.7 or Windows, some changes might be required.**

## Features:
1. Find any open slots and print it in the terminal and optionally write to a file
2. (Optional) Run the script as a cron job (Linux/MacOS) which will periodically check for the slots.
3. (Optional) Run the script as a cron job (Linux/MacOS), you can get an alert whenever a slot frees up.

The main code is in the file [slot_checker.py](https://github.com/faizulhai24/cowin-vaccine-slot-checker/blob/main/slot_checker.py). Rest everything is optional in case you want to run it as a cron job.

## Configurations:
Explanation for all the configuration that can be found in [slot_checker.py](https://github.com/faizulhai24/cowin-vaccine-slot-checker/blob/main/slot_checker.py)

Config                                |           Info
--------------------------------------| ----------------------------------
DISTRICT_IDS                          | This is the list of districts to check for free slot. You can get your district id in [DISTRICT_LISTS](https://github.com/faizulhai24/cowin-vaccine-slot-checker/blob/main/DISTRICT_LISTS.md). Example. [(294, "BBMP"), (265, "Bengaluru Urban")] will find slots in BBMP and Bengaluru Urban districts. Change this id and name to your district. 
WRITE_TO_FILE                         | Optional. Write the free slots to a file. Default: True
FILE_NAME                             | Optional. File to which to write the open slots to. Default: "vaccine.txt"
ALARM                                 | Optional. This will ring an alarm when free slots are found. Default: True
NUM_WEEKS                             | No of weeks starting today to check the slots in. Default: 5
MIN_AGE                               | Minimum age limit. Default: 18. Can be changed to 45 for senior people.   


## Steps to run:
1. Clone the repository
2. Run ```pip install -r requirements.txt```
3. Change the above defined configurations in [slot_checker.py](https://github.com/faizulhai24/cowin-vaccine-slot-checker/blob/main/slot_checker.py) 
4. Run the script using ```python3 slot_checker.py```

## Steps to run a cron job periodically (Linux/MacOS):

Cron job are periodic jobs that will run silently in the background automatically.
There is a cron helper script [slot_script.sh](https://github.com/faizulhai24/cowin-vaccine-slot-checker/blob/main/cron_script.sh) in the repo, however you might have to make some changes to cron_script according to your environment.

1. Go to the terminal and run ```crontab -e```
2. Add this line `````* * * * *  <PATH_TO_THE_REPO>/cron_script.sh`````
3. You can change the periodicity. Just a regular cron expression. The above one will execute every 1 minute.
3. (Optional) If you want to disable the terminal mail for every cron job run add ```MAILTO="""``` above the previous command.

>Note: There is ```MIN_CAPACITY``` config in the main file. Change it to maybe ```5```, so that your laptop does not keep alerting you when a single slot opens up because most likely it is going to filled by the time you sign in onto the portal.
>
>Note: To check if this cron is running properly, you can check if the file with FILE_NAME got created. Another way is to check terminal mail. The terminal is going to create a mail for every time the cron runs. To check, go to terminal and run ```mail```.

Commit message:

Open self registration page, check for both 18 and 45 age groups, and play alarm file on windows
1. Open selfregistration page to quickly register in case slots are found
2. check dependency
3. Functionality to check slots for both 18 and 45+ groups
4. Play alarm sound on Windows

README.md, after:

# cowin-vaccine-slot-checker
This is a Python script which will help you to know when a slot is available on Cowin website.

**This script has been tested with Python version 3.6, 3.8 on Linux/MacOs. In case you want to run it with Python 2.7 or Windows, some changes might be required.**

## Features:
1. Find any open slots and print it in the terminal and optionally write to a file
2. (Optional) Run the script as a cron job (Linux/MacOS) which will periodically check for the slots.
3. (Optional) Run the script as a cron job (Linux/MacOS), you can get an alert whenever a slot frees up.

The main code is in the file [slot_checker.py](https://github.com/faizulhai24/cowin-vaccine-slot-checker/blob/main/slot_checker.py). Rest everything is optional in case you want to run it as a cron job.

## Configurations:
Explanation for all the configuration that can be found in [slot_checker.py](https://github.com/faizulhai24/cowin-vaccine-slot-checker/blob/main/slot_checker.py)

Config                                |           Info
--------------------------------------| ----------------------------------
DISTRICT_IDS                          | This is the list of districts to check for free slot. You can get your district id in [DISTRICT_LISTS](https://github.com/faizulhai24/cowin-vaccine-slot-checker/blob/main/DISTRICT_LISTS.md). Example. [(294, "BBMP"), (265, "Bengaluru Urban")] will find slots in BBMP and Bengaluru Urban districts. Change this id and name to your district. 
WRITE_TO_FILE                         | Optional. Write the free slots to a file. Default: True
FILE_NAME                             | Optional. File to which to write the open slots to. Default: "vaccine.txt"
ALARM                                 | Optional. This will ring an alarm when free slots are found. Default: True
NUM_WEEKS                             | No of weeks starting today to check the slots in. Default: 5
MIN_AGE                               | Minimum age limit. Array can used to check for 18-44 or 45+ age groups. Default : Both
OPEN_PAGE                             | Optional. This will open the self registration page when free slots are found. Default: True

## Steps to run:
1. Clone the repository
2. Run ```pip install -r requirements.txt```
3. Change the above defined configurations in [slot_checker.py](https://github.com/faizulhai24/cowin-vaccine-slot-checker/blob/main/slot_checker.py) 
4. Run the script using ```python3 slot_checker.py```

## Steps to run a cron job periodically (Linux/MacOS):

Cron job are periodic jobs that will run silently in the background automatically.
There is a cron helper script [slot_script.sh](https://github.com/faizulhai24/cowin-vaccine-slot-checker/blob/main/cron_script.sh) in the repo, however you might have to make some changes to cron_script according to your environment.

1. Go to the terminal and run ```crontab -e```
2. Add this line `````* * * * *  <PATH_TO_THE_REPO>/cron_script.sh`````
3. You can change the periodicity. Just a regular cron expression. The above one will execute every 1 minute.
3. (Optional) If you want to disable the terminal mail for every cron job run add ```MAILTO="""``` above the previous command.

>Note: There is ```MIN_CAPACITY``` config in the main file. Change it to maybe ```5```, so that your laptop does not keep alerting you when a single slot opens up because most likely it is going to filled by the time you sign in onto the portal.
>
>Note: To check if this cron is running properly, you can check if the file with FILE_NAME got created. Another way is to check terminal mail. The terminal is going to create a mail for every time the cron runs. To check, go to terminal and run ```mail```.
